                 CALL FOR PAPERS OF THE 3rd WORKSHOP ON

                        MOBILE  OBJECT SYSTEMS:

           Operating System support for Mobile Object Systems
                   Jyvaskyla, Finland, June 9-10, 1997
                     http://cuiwww.unige.ch/~ecoopws/

SCOPE

The success of  massively distributed systems  has fuelled the search  for a 
programming paradigm that addresses issues of scale, efficiency and security. 
Recently  a number of new languages and  systems that  support  computation 
mobility  have been developed.  Within  the  framework  of  object-oriented 
technology,  mobile object systems  are groups of  running objects that can
move  over heterogeneous networks,  carrying both code and  execution state. 

LANGUAGES vs NETWORK OPERATING SYSTEMS

Many of the environments for mobile object systems currently available have 
come from the programming language and network community. Languages such as 
Telescript, Extended Facile, Obliq and Java have all been used to implement 
mobile computations.  In each case, an important part of the implementation 
was  devoted to a  run-time system   in charge of:   (1)  allowing multiple 
computations  to run  concurrently,       (2)  protecting the host from the 
computations by strict resource access control, (3) protecting computations 
from other computations, (4) migrating computations. Most often, all of the 
features are implemented anew,  ignoring the  services offered by operating 
systems.  The reason is  partly because of the desire to be  OS-independent 
and partly because currently  OS technology is  felt to be inadapted to the 
needs of mobile applications.

TOPICS

The goal of this workshop is to explore new directions in operating systems 
as  well  as  the  synergy  with  mobile computations  and  object-oriented  
programming  languages.  Thus we will identify needs of mobile programs and 
how these can be met by the innovative operating system designs. 
A non-exhaustive list of topics include:

    * Operating systems for mobile computations
    * Programming language support for mobility
    * Integration of programming languages and operating systems
    * Resource management techniques
    * Innovative scheduling strategies
    * Security mechanisms and policies for mobile computations
    * Portable intermediate representations
    * Linking issues
    * Communication mechanisms
    * Management of mobile object systems
    * Experience reports

IMPORTANT DATES
    April 5, 1997: submission deadline
    May 5,   1997: notification of acceptance
    June 5,  1997: final version of papers
    Sept 5,  1997: camera ready versions 
                   of accepted-for-publication 
                   papers

PROGRAM COMMITTEE
    Joachim Baumann, IPVR U. of Stuttgart
    Andrew Black, Oregon Graduate Institute
    Luca Cardelli, DEC SRC
    Paolo Ciancarini, U. of Bologna
    Doug Lea, SUNY Oswego
    Jay Lepreau, U. of Utah
    Eric Jul, DIKU U. of Copenhagen
     Rui Oliveira, U. of Minho
    Marc Shapiro, INRIA
    Christian Tschudin, U. of Zurich
    Jan Vitek, U. of Geneva

SUBMISSIONS

Prospective authors are invited to submit an electronic PostScript copy by 
e-mail  to: ecoopws@cui.unige.ch
The paper should  be  no more than  15 pages in the Springer-Verlag format 
for Lecture Notes in Computer Science.    
Short papers and position papers are welcome.
Papers that attempt to establish links between different approaches and/or 
include  expository  or survey material,   as well as  presenting original 
results,  are welcome.        Results should be  clear and useful to other 
practitioners in the field.     Description of a new system should include 
reproducible, useful results or lessons learned. 
Papers  coming from the mobile computations  community  should   highlight 
technical  aspects  and  operating  system requirements.   Papers from the 
operating  systems  community  should  address  issues  relevant to mobile 
computations.   All  papers will be reviewed and electronic copies will be 
linked to the  Web  page  of  the  workshop.   

PUBLICATION

The   best papers  will  appear  in    extended form  in  a  post-workshop 
proceedings to  be published, pending approval, as  a Springer Verlag LNCS
volume. 

FORMAT 

The workshop will take place in the two days before the ECOOP'97 conference.  
The number of participants will be  limited to  20  persons,  the selection 
will be based on the submitted material. The first day of the workshop will 
be  devoted  to  presentations  of  on-going  work  and of state of the art 
systems.   Discussions  of the problem topics submitted by the participants 
will take place on the second day.  Workshop attendees are expected to take 
an active part in the discussions. 

ORGANIZATION

C. Tschudin (tschudin@ifi.unizh.ch)  and    J. Vitek  (jvitek@cui.unige.ch)
J. Baumann  (IPVR/U. of Stuttgart)          M. Shapiro (INRIA)
