			      IWAOOS'99

      Intercontinental Workshop on Aliasing in Object-Oriented Systems

     In association with the 13th European Conference on Object-Oriented
                           Programming (ECOOP'99)
                     Lisbon, Portugal, 14-18 June 1999 
                  http://cuiwww.unige.ch/~ecoopws/iwaoos

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
Aliasing is endemic in object oriented programming. Because an object
can be modified via any alias, object oriented programs are hard to
understand, maintain, and analyse. For example, aliasing can cause
representation exposure, when an internal implementation object of an
aggregate object is accessible outside the aggregate, and argument
dependence, when an object's integrity depends upon the state of an
aliased object outside its control.  These aliasing problems make
objects depend on their environment in unpredictable ways, breaking
the encapsulation necessary for reliable software components.

On the other hand, understanding aliasing, or more generally,
understanding the implicit structure of inter-object references in
object-oriented programs, offers many opportunities for improving the
implementation of object-oriented systems. The performance of garbage
collection, cpu caches, virtual memory, distributed object systems,
and object-oriented data bases all depend to some extent on the
object-oriented program's aliasing structure.

Aliasing has been extensively studied in areas outside object-oriented
programs, but features peculiar to object-oriented programs raise many
new issues that have not yet been adequately addressed. In this
workshop, we will focus once again on the objects in the
"object-oriented" systems that we build, rather than the classes which
exist merely to support these objects. We will examine the state of
the art in aliasing in object-oriented systems, discuss recent
progress, and identify open questions. More specifically, the workshop
will address the following issues:

   * Models of object ownership, aliasing, uniqueness.
   * Techniques for alias prevention, detection, protection, and
     advertisement.
   * Analysis and design techniques and notations for describing aliasing.
   * Programming language mechanisms for managing aliasing.
   * Design guidelines, idioms, and patterns for programming with aliasing.
   * Optimisation techniques based on alias analysis.
   * Empirical studies of alias structures in programs or alias-based
     techniques
   * Experience programming with alias-aware systems.

We encourage not only submissions presenting original research
results, but also papers that attempt to establish links between
different approaches and/or papers that include survey
material. Original research results should be clearly described, and
their usefulness to practitioners outlined. Paper selection will be
based on the quality of the submitted material.

The workshop will be held on the 15th of June 1999, as part of the
ECOOP'99 conference taking place in Lisbon, Portugal.

Submissions:

Both full papers (<15 p.) and position papers (1 p.) are welcome. Send
submissions to: ecoopws@cui.unige.ch by April 4, 1999 (e-mail in
PostScript, PDF, or ASCII format is strongly preferred). All
submissions will be reviewed by the programme committee.

Publication:

1-2 page summaries of accepted papers will be published in the ECOOP
Workshop Reader, and all accepted submissions will remain available
from the workshop web page. Selected papers will be included in a
special issue of Theory and Practice of Object Systems (TAPOS) to be
published after the workshop.

Important Dates:

   * April 4th: Deadline for submission of papers.
   * May 3rd: Notification of authors.
   * June 5th: Final version of papers.
   * June 15th: IWAOOS.

Programme Committee:

Ole Agesen, Sun Microsystems Laboratories
Paulo Sergio Almeida, Universidade do Minho
John Tang Boyland, U. Wisconsin-Milwaukee
Laurie Hendren, McGill University
John Hogg, ObjecTime
Doug Lea, State University of New York at Oswego
Rustan Leino, COMPAQ Systems Research Center
James Noble, Microsoft Research Institute, Macquarie University
Jens Palsberg, Purdue University
Bill Pugh, University of Maryland
Jan Vitek, Universite de Geneve, Geneva

Organisers:

James Noble (Australia) kjx@mri.mq.edu.au
Jan Vitek (Europe) Jan.Vitek@cui.unige.ch
Doug Lea (America) dl@cs.oswego.edu
Paulo Sergio Almeida (Local) psa@homer.di.uminho.pt

Questions:

Email ecoopws@cui.unige.ch

